README.md, before:

# .NET Core Lab

This repo is for experimentation and exploring new ideas that may or may not make it into the main corefx repo.

Curently, this repo contains the following experimental components:

* **System.Text.Formatting**. 
System.Text.Formatting APIs are similar to the existing StringBuilder and TextWriter APIs. 
They are designed to format values into text streams and to build complex strings. 
But these APIs are optimized for creating text for the Web. 
They do formatting with minimum GC heap allocations (1/6 of allocations in some scenarios) and can format directly to UTF8 streams. 
This can result in significant performance wins for software that does a lot of text formatting for the Web, e.g. generating HTML, JSON, XML. 
See more information on this component and code samples at the [Wiki]: https://github.com/dotnet/corefxlab/wiki 

* **System.IO.FileSystem.Watcher.Polling**. 
.NET's FileSystemWatcher has low overhead, but it can miss some changes. This is acceptable in many scenarios, but in some, it night be not. 
This component, PollingWatcher, allows to monitory directory changes by polling, and so will never miss a change. It is optimized to minimize 
allocations, when no changes are detected. In fact, it does not allocate anything on the GC heap when there are no changes detected. 

* **System.Threading.Tasks.Channels**.
The System.Threading.Tasks.Channels library provides a set of synchronization data structures for passing data between producers and consumers. 
Whereas the existing System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow library is focused on pipelining and connecting together dataflow "blocks" which encapsulate 
both storage and processing, System.Threading.Tasks.Channels is focused purely on the storage aspect, with data structures used to provide the 
hand-offs between participants explicitly coded to use the storage. The library is designed to be used with async/await in C#.  See the
[README.md](https://github.com/dotnet/corefxlab/blob/master/src/System.Threading.Tasks.Channels/README.md) for more information.

* **System.Time**.
This project augments the date and time APIs in .NET.  It adds two new core types: `Date` and `TimeOfDay`.
It also provides extension methods to enhance the functionality of the existing `DateTime`, `DateTimeOffset` and `TimeZoneInfo` types.

More libraries are coming soon. Stay tuned!

[blog post]: http://blogs.msdn.com/b/dotnet/archive/2014/11/12/net-core-is-open-source.aspx

## Related Projects

For an overview of all the .NET related projects, have a look at the
[.NET home repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/dotnet).

## How to Use
You can get the .NET Core Lab packages from **netcore-package-prototyping** MyGet feed: 

```
https://www.myget.org/F/netcore-package-prototyping/api/v2
```

You can add this feed among your NuGet sources and install the packages (keep in mind that packages are pre-release packages).

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## .NET Foundation

This project is a part of the [.NET Foundation].

[.NET Foundation]: http://www.dotnetfoundation.org/projects
[.NET Foundation forums]: http://forums.dotnetfoundation.org/

## Building and Testing

To find out how you can build and test .NET Core, see the [Developer Guide].

[Developer Guide]: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/master/Documentation/project-docs/developer-guide.md

Commit message:

It was mostly project.json changes to have the projects depend on nuget packages as opposed to P2P dependencies.
I had System.Text.Utf8 working as well, but now it has a dependency on the custom csc compiler which I haven't figured out how to make it work for dotnet compile.

Adding unsafe option to System.Slices project.json and adding global.json

Fixing Global.json

In order to make buffers build in the cli and in VS, I needed to remove the project dependency from buffers to slices and replace it with a package dependency. Also replaced csproj with xproj

Reverting back to all csprojs, but added nuget dependencies to all project.json files. Needed to revert back to make build.cmd to build and pass in a sane manner. Building through the solution in VS was already not working, as it missed the reference to the projects outside of the src folder. This way we maintain the state of the world before and we get the CLI to build. So far I have tested Slices, Buffers and CommandLine.

Enabling dotnet compile for System.Text.Utf8

README.md, after:

# .NET Core Lab

This repo is for experimentation and exploring new ideas that may or may not make it into the main corefx repo.

Curently, this repo contains the following experimental components:

* **System.Text.Formatting**. 
System.Text.Formatting APIs are similar to the existing StringBuilder and TextWriter APIs. 
They are designed to format values into text streams and to build complex strings. 
But these APIs are optimized for creating text for the Web. 
They do formatting with minimum GC heap allocations (1/6 of allocations in some scenarios) and can format directly to UTF8 streams. 
This can result in significant performance wins for software that does a lot of text formatting for the Web, e.g. generating HTML, JSON, XML. 
See more information on this component and code samples at the [Wiki]: https://github.com/dotnet/corefxlab/wiki 

* **System.IO.FileSystem.Watcher.Polling**. 
.NET's FileSystemWatcher has low overhead, but it can miss some changes. This is acceptable in many scenarios, but in some, it might be not. 
This component, PollingWatcher, allows to monitory directory changes by polling, and so will never miss a change. It is optimized to minimize 
allocations, when no changes are detected. In fact, it does not allocate anything on the GC heap when there are no changes detected. 

* **System.Threading.Tasks.Channels**.
The System.Threading.Tasks.Channels library provides a set of synchronization data structures for passing data between producers and consumers. 
Whereas the existing System.Threading.Tasks.Dataflow library is focused on pipelining and connecting together dataflow "blocks" which encapsulate 
both storage and processing, System.Threading.Tasks.Channels is focused purely on the storage aspect, with data structures used to provide the 
hand-offs between participants explicitly coded to use the storage. The library is designed to be used with async/await in C#.  See the
[README.md](https://github.com/dotnet/corefxlab/blob/master/src/System.Threading.Tasks.Channels/README.md) for more information.

* **System.Time**.
This project augments the date and time APIs in .NET.  It adds two new core types: `Date` and `TimeOfDay`.
It also provides extension methods to enhance the functionality of the existing `DateTime`, `DateTimeOffset` and `TimeZoneInfo` types.

* **System.Collections.Generic.MultiValueDictionary**.
The MultiValueDictionary is a generic collection that functions similarly to a Dictionary<TKey, ICollection<TValue>> with some added validation
and ease of use functions. It can also be compared to a Lookup with the exception that the MultiValueDictionary is mutable. It allows custom 
setting of the internal collections so that uniqueness of values can be chosen by specifying either a HashSet<TValue> or List<TValue>. Some of the
design decisions as well as introductions to usage can be found in the old blog posts introducing it [here](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/dotnet/archive/2014/06/20/would-you-like-a-multidictionary.aspx) and [here](http://blogs.msdn.com/b/dotnet/archive/2014/08/05/multidictionary-becomes-multivaluedictionary.aspx).

More libraries are coming soon. Stay tuned!

[blog post]: http://blogs.msdn.com/b/dotnet/archive/2014/11/12/net-core-is-open-source.aspx

## Related Projects

For an overview of all the .NET related projects, have a look at the
[.NET home repository](https://github.com/Microsoft/dotnet).

## How to Use
You can get the .NET Core Lab packages from **netcore-package-prototyping** MyGet feed: 

```
https://www.myget.org/F/netcore-package-prototyping/api/v2
```

You can add this feed among your NuGet sources and install the packages (keep in mind that packages are pre-release packages).

## License

This project is licensed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

## .NET Foundation

This project is a part of the [.NET Foundation].

[.NET Foundation]: http://www.dotnetfoundation.org/projects
[.NET Foundation forums]: http://forums.dotnetfoundation.org/

## Building and Testing

To find out how you can build and test .NET Core, see the [Developer Guide].

[Developer Guide]: https://github.com/dotnet/corefx/blob/master/Documentation/project-docs/developer-guide.md
