scripts/PerfHarness/README.md, before:

# CoreFxLab Perf Test Harness

This project contains a simple harness to run performance tests and measure the
results.

## Run the Performance Tests

1. Make sure all of the tests have been restored
   (`dotnet restore <path-to-tests-dir>`)

2. Restore this project
   (`dotnet restore`)

3a. Run the harness--make sure to use the release configuration
   (`dotnet run -c Release`)
   
3b. To run specific tests only, pass in the type names to the harness (this run types found in any of the assemblies):
   (`dotnet run -c Release -- --perf:typenames name1 [name2] [...]`)
   
3c. To run specific tests found in a specific assembly only, pass in the assembly name and type names to the harness:
   (`dotnet run -c Release -- --assembly Benchmarks --perf:typenames name1 [name2] [...]`)

## Add a New Performance Test

When adding a new xunit-performance compatible test project, simply make the
following changes to enable it to run using this harness:

* Add a project dependency in this project's `project.json` referencing the new
  test project.

* Add the new element to the array returned by `GetTestAssemblies()` inside
  `PerfHarness.cs`. The element should be the name of the perf test project
  assembly, excluding the file extension.

Commit message:

Adding xunit-perf-api command line options to readme (#1300)
* Adding xunit-perf-api command line options to readme

* adding period at end of sentence.

* Change project.json to csproj

scripts/PerfHarness/README.md, after:

# CoreFxLab Perf Test Harness

This project contains a simple harness to run performance tests and measure the
results.

## Run the Performance Tests

1. Make sure all of the tests have been restored
   (`dotnet restore <path-to-tests-dir>`)

2. Restore this project
   (`dotnet restore`)

3a. Run the harness--make sure to use the release configuration
   (`dotnet run -c Release`)
   
3b. To run specific tests only, pass in the type names to the harness (this run types found in any of the assemblies):
   (`dotnet run -c Release -- --perf:typenames name1 [name2] [...]`)
   
3c. To run specific tests found in a specific assembly only, pass in the assembly name and type names to the harness:
   (`dotnet run -c Release -- --assembly Benchmarks --perf:typenames name1 [name2] [...]`)

## Add a New Performance Test

When adding a new xunit-performance compatible test project, simply make the
following changes to enable it to run using this harness:

* Add a project reference in this project's `csproj` file referencing the new
  test project.

* Add the new element to the array returned by `GetTestAssemblies()` inside
  `PerfHarness.cs`. The element should be the name of the perf test project
  assembly, excluding the file extension.

## Xunit-Performance-Api

Here are the list of command line options available when running performance tests (starting from build [1.0.0-alpha-build0048](https://dotnet.myget.org/feed/dotnet-core/package/nuget/xunit.performance.api) onwards).

Option | Description
--- | ---
--perf:outputdir | Specifies the output directory name.
--perf:runid | User defined id given to the performance harness.
--perf:typenames | The (optional) type names of the test classes to run.
--help | Display this help screen.
--version | Display version information.
